---
title: Tensorflow api整理(2)
date: 2017-11-08 21:31:14
tags: [tensorflow,机器学习]
categories: [图像]
---






API文档：
http://wiki.jikexueyuan.com/project/tensorflow-zh/api_docs/python/index.html


###### tf.nn.conv2d(input, filter, strides, padding, use_cudnn_on_gpu=None, name=None)

Computes a 2-D convolution given 4-D input and filter tensors.

* input: A Tensor. Must be one of the following types: float32, float64.
* filter: A Tensor. Must have the same type as input.
  input和filter的通道数需要一致。
  strides: A list of ints. 1-D of length 4. The stride of the sliding window for each dimension of input.
  滑动窗口的步长，一维向量，strides[0]=strides[3]=1
* padding: A string from: "SAME", "VALID". The type of padding algorithm to use.
  SAME:进行0的补位，左奇右偶。
  VALID:不进行0的补位，丢弃多余的。
* use_cudnn_on_gpu: An optional bool. Defaults to True.
  name: A name for the operation (optional).

###### tf.truncated_normal(shape, mean=0.0, stddev=1.0, dtype=tf.float32, seed=None, name=None)

Outputs random values from a truncated normal distribution.

Args:
* shape: A 1-D integer Tensor or Python array. The shape of the output tensor.
* mean: A 0-D Tensor or Python value of type dtype. The mean of the truncated normal distribution.
* stddev: A 0-D Tensor or Python value of type dtype. The standard deviation of the truncated normal distribution.
* dtype: The type of the output.
* seed: A Python integer. Used to create a random seed for the distribution. See set_random_seed for behavior.
* name: A name for the operation (optional).
  Returns:

A tensor of the specified shape filled with random truncated normal values.

###### tf.constant(value, dtype=None, shape=None, name='Const')

value: A constant value (or list) of output type dtype.

dtype: The type of the elements of the resulting tensor.

shape: Optional dimensions of resulting tensor.

name: Optional name for the tensor.
Returns:

A Constant Tensor.

###### tf.nn.max_pool(value, ksize, strides, padding, name=None)

Performs the max pooling on the input.
找出卷积得到的特征图区域的最大值。缩小了特征图。
Args:
* value: ***A 4-D Tensor with shape [batch, height, width, channels]*** and type float32, float64, qint8, quint8, qint32.
* ksize: A list of ints that has length >= 4. The size of the window for each dimension of the input tensor.
  ps：一般取[1, height,width,1]，因为不需要在batch和channels上做池化
* strides: A list of ints that has length >= 4. The stride of the sliding window for each dimension of the input tensor.
* ps:一般取[1, stride,stride, 1]
* padding: A string, either 'VALID' or 'SAME'. The padding algorithm.
* name: Optional name for the operation.
  Returns:

A Tensor with the same type as value. The max pooled output tensor.



参考：
https://www.cnblogs.com/wuzhitj/p/6433871.html